Update glossary (#24)
radicle-dev/radicle-docs: docs/understanding-radicle/glossary.md

---

## branch
A parallel version of a [project][]. A branch is separate from the default
branch, allowing one to work freely without disrupting the "live" version of a
[repository][re]. Once changes are made, a branch can be merged back into the

> default branch to publish changes.

Reviewer: I'd kill this section, `branch` is a git concept and better explained in the git docs.

## checkout
To create a working copy of a [project][pr]. This working copy is where a

> [user][us] can make and publish changes to [repository][re] via 'git push rad'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[user][us] can make and publish changes to the project [repository][re] via 'git push rad'.
```

For more on how working copies work in Radicle, see [Working
Copies](/how-it-works.md/#working-copies)

> ## commit

Author: ```suggestion
```

made to the network. See [Gossip](/how-it-works.md/#replication-model)

## maintainer
A [user][us] who manages updates to the canonical view of a project. A
maintainer is explicitly associated with the [project][pr] at the time of
creation or later, via the [project][pr] metadata [See Data
Model](/how-it-works.md/#data-model), but there may be multiple maintainers of a
project, all maintaining their own trees. At creation, the creator of the
[project][pr] is the sole maintainer.

All (or a quorum of) maintainer signatures are required to write to the
canonical upstream branch of a [project][pr]. 

## main
How radicle-upstream refers to the default development branch of a project.

## master
How git refers to the default development branch of a repository

## node
A peer running an instance of the Radicle Link protocol. There can only one node
running per device.

## passphrase
A sequence of characters used to encrypt a peer's private key (See
[Identities](how-it-works.md/#identities)) to enable access to the Radicle
network. It's also needed to fetch and push
changesets to the Radicle network. 

## peer
A device running the Radicle Link protocol.

> ## peerID

Author: ```suggestion
## Device ID
```

The encoding of a peer's public key tied to their device. In the Beta, there will
only be one peerID per device (See
[Architecture](how-it-works.md/#architecture))

> ## profile

Author: ```suggestion
```

> A [user][us]'s visual identity on Upstream. It includes the [user][us]'s display
> name, Radicle ID (for now, their peerID), and emoji avatar. This is what other
> users see when they discover on the network.

Author: ```suggestion
```

fetched and replicated by connected peers.

## Radicle ID
Unique shareable identifiers for peers and projects in the Radicle Network. 

## Radicle Link
A peer-to-peer replication protocol built on Git. See [How it
Works](how-it-works.md).

## Radicle network
The network of peers that replicate and gossip data with Radicle Link.

## radicle-upstream
A desktop application (graphic [user][us] interface, GUI) built to interact with
and enable access to the Radicle Network and, initially, the primary
end-[user][us] experience. However, it will be one of many potential clients
that [user][us]s can use to access the Radicle Network.

## remote
Another peer's view of a project. Remotes can be pulled/fetched from.
Maintainers of a project may choose to track other peer's views of their project
by adding them as a remote. In the context of a project, maintainers of a
repository may choose to track the views of other owners (this is called a
remote in Git terminology: a named reference to a remote repository). If the
remote repository is found to track other remotes, the tracking repository shall
also transitively track those, up to a configurable N degrees out (currently in
the works).

> ## repository
> A physical manifestation or working copy of a [project][pr], tied to a
> [user][us]'s machine. A [repository][re] in Radicle contains the owner's view

Author: ```suggestion
```

> and the view of any tracked peers. To publish a [repository][re] to the network,
> it must first be initialized as a [project][pr] or part of a [project][pr]. A
> [repository][re] can be addressed by a shareable URN (See Radicle ID), which is

Author: ```suggestion
```

then resolved to a physical location on the network, for the purpose of

> replication (See Radicle URNs)

Author: ```suggestion
```

## git
A free and open source distributed version control system.

## gossip
A means of peer-to-peer communication that relies on the interactions of peers
to disseminate information. Participants in the Radicle network share and spread
data by keeping redundant copies of projects locally and sharing updates with
peers. This allows data to be disseminated according to use and value: the more
peers who are interested in certain data the more available it is
made to the network. See [Gossip](/how-it-works.md/#replication-model)

## maintainer
A [user][us] who manages updates to the canonical view of a project. A
maintainer is explicitly associated with the [project][pr] at the time of
creation or later, via the [project][pr] metadata [See Data
Model](/how-it-works.md/#data-model), but there may be multiple maintainers of a
project, all maintaining their own trees. At creation, the creator of the
[project][pr] is the sole maintainer.

All (or a quorum of) maintainer signatures are required to write to the
canonical upstream branch of a [project][pr]. 

## main
How radicle-upstream refers to the default development branch of a project.

> ## master

Author: ```suggestion
```

> How git refers to the default development branch of a repository

Author: ```suggestion
```

Commits can also contain a brief description of what changes were made, also
known as a commit message.

To "commit" is the action of storing a new snapshot of the [project][pr]'s state
in the version controlled [project][pr] history. This new commit also represents

> the current state of the index and advances HEAD to point at the new commit.

Reviewer: Same here, would kill this.

## connect
To create a network connection to another Radicle [peer][pe]. Connected peers
spread information between each other via gossip.

## contributor

> A [user][us] that has pushed code or other data to their version of another's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [user][us] who has pushed code to a project.
```

[project][pr].

## display name
A changeable and non-unique human-readable name chosen by the [user][us]. Like a
"nickname" for a [Radicle ID][ri]. This will be possible to change in the
future. 

## follow

> Following a [project][pr] or [peer][us] replicates it's data to the your machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following a [project][pr] or [peer][us] replicates its data to the your machine
```

(See [Tracking](/how-it-works.md/#tracking)). This allows the follower to
subscribe to updates from the project / peer and signal interest by further

> replicating the data across their network, making it available to their social

Reviewer: ```suggestion
replicating the data across their network, making it available to other peers.
```

> graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## git
A free and open source distributed version control system.

## gossip
A means of peer-to-peer communication that relies on the interactions of peers
to disseminate information. Participants in the Radicle network share and spread

> data by keeping redundant copies of proejcts locally and sharing updates with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data by keeping redundant copies of projects locally and sharing updates with
```

peers. This allows data to be disseminated according to use and value: the more

> peers who are interested in certain data the more available a [project][pr] is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
peers who are interested in certain data the more available it is
```

made to the network. See [Gossip](/how-it-works.md/#replication-model)

## maintainer

> A [user][us] that manages updates to the canonical view of a project. A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [user][us] who manages updates to the canonical view of a project. A
```

maintainer is explicitly associated with the [project][pr] at the time of
creation or later, via the [project][pr] metadata [See Data
Model](/how-it-works.md/#data-model), but there may be multiple maintainers of a

> project, all maintaining their own views. At creation, the creator of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
project, all maintaining their own trees. At creation, the creator of the
```

[project][pr] is the sole maintainer.

All (or a quorum of) maintainer signatures are required to write to the

> canonical upstream branch of a [project][pr]. 

Reviewer: I think this description could be improved. There's no canonical branch really.

Author: Maybe we just take last sentence out bc it's not relevant yet.

## main
How radicle-upstream refers to the default development branch of a project.

## master

> How git refers to the default development branch of a repository

Reviewer: Everyone knows this, I would kill it.

## node
A peer running an instance of the Radicle Link protocol. There can only one node
running per device.

## passphrase

> A passphrase used to decrypt a peer's keypair (See

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sequence of characters used to encrypt a peer's private key (See
```

[Identities](how-it-works.md/#identities)) to enable access to the Radicle

> network through the Upstream client. It's also needed to fetch and push

Reviewer: ```suggestion
network. It's also needed to fetch and push
```
It's actually independent of the client.

changesets to the Radicle network. 

## peer

> A person running a node on the Radicle network. There can be only one peer per

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A device running the Radicle Link protocol.
```

> device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## peerID

> The encoding of a peer's public key tied to their device. At Beta, there will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The encoding of a peer's public key tied to their device. In the Beta, there will
```

> only be one peerID per device (See

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only be one Device ID per user (See
```

> [Architecture](how-it-works.md/#architecture))

Reviewer: Should be Device ID.

## profile
A [user][us]'s visual identity on Upstream. It includes the [user][us]'s display
name, Radicle ID (for now, their peerID), and emoji avatar. This is what other

> users see when they discover on the network.

Reviewer: I'd kill this section. Our profiles aren't special.

## project
A [project][pr] consists of source code, issues, and proposed changesets. It
carries a unique, shareable [Radicle ID](Radicle ID). A [project][pr] also

> includes the identities of all its [maintainers](maintainers) The entirety of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
includes the identities of all its [maintainers](maintainers). The entirety of
```

the [project][pr] data and metadata, including social artifacts such as
comments, are stored within the [project][pr]'s [repository][re]. [project][pr]s
are the principle unit of replication.

## project name
A human-readable [project][pr] name that is chosen for a project. It is not
guaranteed to be unique.

## publish
To make data public to the network. Once something is published, it may be
fetched and replicated by connected peers.

## Radicle ID

> Unique shareable identifiers for peers and projects in the Radicle Network. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unique shareable identifier for users and projects in the Radicle Network. 
```

Reviewer: "Radicle IDs are usually shared as URNs"

## Radicle Link
A peer-to-peer replication protocol built on Git. See [How it
Works](how-it-works.md).

## Radicle network
The network of peers that replicate and gossip data with Radicle Link.

## radicle-upstream
A desktop application (graphic [user][us] interface, GUI) built to interact with
and enable access to the Radicle Network and, initially, the primary
end-[user][us] experience. However, it will be one of many potential clients
that [user][us]s can use to access the Radicle Network.

## remote

> Another peer's view of a project. Remotes can be pulled/fetched from.

Reviewer: We use "view" in a few places, I think we should use the terms "tree" or "repository" to be clearer.

Reviewer 2: `tree` is one of those terms which is easily, heavily overloaded in the domain - source code control and sharing - we operate in. It would be helpful to find a more distinct way of referring to the project state other peers maintain. In another place we discussed to settle back on `fork` again, when a user created a distinct version of a project on their device. Maybe that is a term we can establish, as it disassociate from the physicality of a file/folder hierarchy.

Reviewer: yeah I agree, I mean especially if we have a "fork" button. It's a bit unfortunate though, because it makes it harder to talk about a fork in the more common sense.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, that's why I proposed `view` initially.

Author: So we are keeping `view`? or replacing with `tree`?

Maintainers of a project may choose to track other peer's views of their project
by adding them as a remote. In the context of a project, maintainers of a
repository may choose to track the views of other owners (this is called a
remote in Git terminology: a named reference to a remote repository). If the
remote repository is found to track other remotes, the tracking repository shall
also transitively track those, up to a configurable N degrees out (currently in
the works).

## repository
A physical manifestation or working copy of a [project][pr], tied to a
[user][us]'s machine. A [repository][re] in Radicle contains the owner's view
and the view of any tracked peers. To publish a [repository][re] to the network,
it must first be initialized as a [project][pr] or part of a [project][pr]. A
[repository][re] can be addressed by a shareable URN (See Radicle ID), which is
then resolved to a physical location on the network, for the purpose of

> replication (See Radicle URNs)

Reviewer: This definition is confused I feel. Needs work.

Author: Deleting and will focus on reworking the project definition

## seed node

> Always-on nodes that automatically track discovered projects and serves data to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Always-on node that automatically track discovered projects and serves data to
```

> their connected peers (see join), thereby increasing the availability of these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their connected peers, thereby increasing the availability of these
```

projects on the network. More on the [role and impacts of seeds][rl].

## upstream
The [repository][re] in which code contributions for a [project][pr] are
intended to be merged once they pass the review process (i.e. canonical upstream
or mainline). The upstream is often the [repository][re] of the [project][pr]'s
original maintainer or creator. For everyone but the creator of this
[repository][re], upstream will be a remote [repository][re].

## user

> Any individual who has created a Radicle ID on the Radicle network through the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any individual who has created a Radicle ID on the Radicle network.
```
They are still a user if they create it by other means.
